docs: simplify modules author guide (#10018)
nuxt/framework: docs/content/1.docs/2.guide/3.going-further/3.modules.md

---
title: "Module Author Guide"
description: "Learn how to create a Nuxt module to integrate, enhance or extend any Nuxt applications."
---

# Module Author Guide

Learn how to create a Nuxt module to integrate, enhance or extend any Nuxt applications.

> Nuxt [configuration](/docs/api/configuration/nuxt-config) and [hooks system](/docs/guide/going-further/hooks) makes it possible to customize every aspect of Nuxt or add any integrations (Vue plugins, CMS, server routes, components, logging, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nuxt's [configuration](/docs/api/configuration/nuxt-config) and [hooks](/docs/guide/going-further/hooks) systems make it possible to customize every aspect of Nuxt and add any integration you might need (Vue plugins, CMS, server routes, components, logging, etc.).
```

> It exposes a powerful API called **Nuxt Modules**: they are simple `async` functions that sequentially run when starting Nuxt in development mode using `nuxi dev` or building a project for production with `nuxi build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to do this is through **Nuxt modules**. Modules are simple `async` functions that run sequentially  when starting Nuxt in development mode using `nuxi dev` or when building a project for production with `nuxi build` or `nuxi generate`. They can also run in the `analyze`, `prepare` and `typecheck` commands - and, in future, expose their own commands.

```

This is an under-the-progress guide. Please regularly check for updates.
::

## Module Anatomy

A Nuxt module is a simple function accepting inline user options and `nuxt` arguments.

It is totally up to you, as the module author, how to handle the rest of the logic.

Starting with Nuxt 3, modules can benefit all [Nuxt Kit](/docs/api/advanced/kit) utilities.

```ts [modules/example.ts]
// modules/module.mjs

> export default async (inlineOptions, nuxt) => {

Reviewer 2: I think it is essential to someplace document this usage without using kit wrapper. It is essential sometimes for library integrations to not have kit dependency. Maybe more it to last in "Advanced"?

Author: I believe we should strongly recommend to use nuxt/kit from now on since it has best-practices baked in IMO.

Why is it essential for library integrations to not have kit dependency?

Reviewer 2: When npm package is not a nuxt module but has /nuxt subpath.

We anyway recommend template and module builder as recommended and in practice best practices reside within the impl. IMO it is essential to document api as much as possible but also keep docs readable.

Reviewer: I think there is some merit in keeping this around - maybe lower down or elsewhere in advanced section(?) with a strong warning that we can only guarantee future compatibility when using `defineNuxtModule`?
